### Getting started with Verixon 💎

Verixon is an open source PHP project intended to get you equipped with OOP with PHP. feel free to build interesting web applications with Verixon.
## Cool Features
1. Doctrine ORM DBAL integration.
2. Twig template engine integration.
3. Swift Mailer: easy mailing system.$transport.
4. Cloudinary Api integration: upload images/video/files + image transformations to cloudinary.
5. User Authentication.
6. Message Encryption. 
7. Httpfoundation component.
8. And lots more 😍

## Requirements

1.  PHP 7 or higher
2.  Server installed
3.  DataBase installed
4.  Composer installed
5.  Text Editor


## Getting everything ready

1. Install Xampp on your PC: xampp comes with PHP 7 or higher + Apache server + MySQL db.
Download Xampp and run the installation manager on your PC. here is the link for xamp installation: https://www.apachefriends.org .
2. Download Composer for php: Composer is a package manager Which saves you the stress in manually installing dependencies or libraries needed to run your PHP code,
you can install composer using the Windows Installer or via your terminal: here the composer installation link: https://getcomposer.org .
The installer - which requires that you have PHP already installed - will download Composer for you and set up your PATH environment variable so you can simply call composer from any directory.
Download and run Composer-Setup.exe - it will install the latest composer version whenever it is executed.
hence Composer will do all the hard work for you, make sure to install composer before running Verixon.

3. ### Create a verixon project via Composer

 Run the following command in your terminal to create a new verixon project
 
 ```markdown
 composer create-project verixon/verixon 
 ```
 or you can provide a new project directory via the command
 
  ```markdown
 composer create-project verixon/verixon directory_name
 ```
 
4. Create a .env file in root directory and copy the .env.example  to it.
5. Create a database named verixon or your preffered db name but be sure to update in your .env file.

for Example

```markdown
DB_CONNECTION=pdo_mysql
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_PORT=3306
DB_DATABASE=verixon
DB_USERNAME=root
DB_PASSWORD=
```
6. Run the following command in your terminal 

   ```markdown
    $ php -S localhost:8000 serve.php
   ```
7. Follow the link generated by your terminal to view Verixons welcome page.
http://localhost:8000

8. And hoops!!!, you are now a Verixon developer.
Feel free to build interesting web application s with Verixon.

You can start up by creating a simple To do application.
## Steps to create a simple Hello world application with Verixon
1. Open the app folder
2. Find the controller folder
3. Create a file called HelloWorldController.php
or you can copy the verixon.php controller code as your initial template, edit the index function and comment out the rest of the code.
4. locate the Route folder and add the Route with a url name: example `/HelloWorld`
5. add the HelloWorld controller class to services located in root Verixon directory ( optional if nothing to resolve. Only for classes that implements dependency injection ).
6. open your preferred browser and input the URL as defined in your router
For example `localhost:8000/HelloWorld.`
7. More practical approaches will be updated soon.
Good luck!.

